Gonna be a bit of a rant here but i just wanted to get my thoughts off on critical thinking in this digital age and then narrow it down to myself/
I was thinking about this today , in a frustiatng day for myslef personally where i couldnt really focus on doing the things i wanted to do but it is insane how easy it is to turn your brain off in the digitial world, in many facets. A good one in my opinion is american sports which i strongly enjoy but thinking of the amount of time that is purely ads makes me naseuous. What is the point of watching the same ads over and over and over again just for some storyline of some player of some team you wont think about again? Another easy one is obvioly doomscrolling but that one has been beat to death and i do a good job of precenting thst so ill focus on one thats been bothhering me a lot more and that is the lack of thinking. A ceo of a big tech company recently said that LLMS will be Intellgicne as a servivce , and to me that is one of the worst statemnts ive heard recently. I think one of my stalwart lifelong goals is to get better mentally over the days,monhts and decades and i felt the pull of an llm for sure in evrything. For example, why look up a recipe when you can get the llm to do it. An ad openai is spamming is get a custom training plan from chatgpt! Why code anymore when you can outsource to an LLM? Why write novels and art when ai can do it in a fraction of a timme? My argurment is not for society, as I think there are benfits for these services in situations. It is mainly for each inidciaul person and the degration of the human brain. It is so easy to give in and do these things , at the cost of developing porlbem solving skills and the satifaction of learning and succeded after mutlple attmpets at failing. I think that is why I enjoy ultrarunning and the idea of it because the whole idea is it isnt easy , and every day is a mental struggle which can lead to a qualitative good. I can feel myself slipping over to the vibecode land at work , as managers try to accealrte timelines to fit this rapidly evolivng timeline and its so easy to prompt and llm 500 times until it somewhat works . As of now its expenseive to do so from a mental perspecitve. Ive been practiving leetcode and i have felt my mine go blank over and over and I crave the reward and solution immealdily from online, where I think in college the art of learning and optimzing tought concepts was years and years of expeirnce to get there. I watched a neetcode video [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rsoEipuwXiI] where he bluntly said the new genration was lazy and to use the fish adage were simply grabbing fishes and leaving and people dont know how to work hard anymore which frustated him. He dedfiently said it harshly, but I can see what he meant the pit of just wanting to passively watch something and deriving the answer isnt the way that humans learn. 
Im sleepy maybe ill finish this up later but i do think I need to make a commintent to write code manually , or at least work more on projects outside of work to keep that critical thinking alive for my field, and im banking on it keeping me alive.