Stoner John Willams Review
This is my first review so this may be a little rambly apologies. Stoner by John Williams is a pretty cool exploration that I felt very strong parallels to some of the Tolstoy works Ive read :the death of ivan ilyich and to a lesser amount Anna Karenina, mappigng through most of the main characters life and his idnivual decisions and non decisions until the end where he reflects on it all. I read this one in a day , and I found the prose to be very digestible yet profound. Williams mentions a lot of how Stoner views his life sometimes with a "lens" or a level of abstraction to how Stoner views his work and thats how I felt reading about him, with the novel feeling a little dreamlike with tropes that are clearly enovken from classics. I think my hughlgiths of the book (and really Stoners life) are the beginning and the end - with the major choices there his decision to go to agriclutre and "awaken" and the end with a quiet regflection. I find the framing of Masters forwshadowing the men that they will be as well as the sonnet 77 to be brillaint and the comparsion of the major wars that the US were in and the refelction in Stoners / his profesor on how even the celebreation of "victory" is a fialure for humanity is great. The parts of the novel i really didnt care for was the war with Lumox , while i understand its a parell between his life with Edith I think a lot of it feels like "fanfiction" that the author broght him from his personal life that didnt grab me especially because his choice to fail the student is one of the 3-5 active choices he makes in his life. I think in terms of pure impact , this one doesnt really hit for me that strong espcaily because i dont feel a kindred spirit in stoner but I can understand why this ones a classic.